This section will be on obtaining acceptance of management and your teammates.
Let's discuss some ideas on how to make this happen.
What makes people resistant to change is risk.
There are always risks with change,
and here are some ideas on how to deal with those.
I will first mention a potential risk and then
approaches to alleviate or remove the risk.
First, disrupting current processes.
You are developing software in a new way, so it may be disruptive.
So the way to start would be to slowly adopt and adapt at a project boundary or,
say, a major system release milestone.
Do not adopt Kanban midstream in a large project.
Some members may likely be slow to adopt or be resistant to change.
That is actually understandable.
Get initial buy‑in for a period of time,
maybe about three months or so, since it may take time to learn,
feel comfortable, and see the results.
Team members may feel insecure and uneasy,
which is totally normal, so help mitigate this by spending time to educate,
train, and coach others.
There will be a loss of initial productivity.
That's a given.
You are learning a whole new way to develop software,
so do not oversell Kanban as a cure‑all for everything.
So set expectations with management, your teammates, and your customer.
And let's not forget you. Set personal expectations as a
team leader, and don't over‑extend.
You will not be able to prove to management that using Kanban or
enhancing your use of Kanban without metrics. Put in place tracking tools
and processes. More on that later in this module.
This will also provide the positive feedback to not only managers but teammates
to see if this is really working or not and where to fix it.
Inadequate communication and training.
You need a focused communication plan to present to management and
possibly your customers and your team members as well.
All right, understand your risks so you can best position
your plans to gain acceptance and support.
Here are some ideas to help you work through the
challenges of getting management approval.
First, businesses are run by business people.
They may not mind or care in how you do your job so long
as business is affected positively.
Fiduciary responsibility is imperative and is a prime obligation of their job.
It is very likely that you will need management approval to proceed,
adopt, or grow Kanban, and,
if not, great! Start moving forward. Many times managers see change as
a risk to the operations of their responsibility.
I think this is correct and justifiable.
That is their job.
If the software development process you are using now
is working, then why make a change?
Wouldn't that be risky?
They may certainly ask that question,
and they will expect you to know why Kanban will be better. If your
development process is having troubles and the bugs are growing and you
are not meeting the customer's needs, actually,
you may have an easier sell to get your manager to agree with a new approach,
since what would they have to lose anyway?
Nonetheless, they will expect you to know why Kanban will be better.
Now let's look at some ideas on how best to prepare management.
What does management like more than anything? Faster,
better, and cheaper, right?
You want to show how you can provide greater value to their
customers faster and with more quality.
There is always room for improvement.
No matter how good you think you're doing something,
there're always opportunities for making things better.
So even if your current processes are working well,
it may be that Kanban could even improve on that even more.
Develop a plan to educate management on the benefits of
implementing Kanban. Secure approval from management.
You will need it.
Proactive managers and leaders are looking for new ways to improve the business.
They may look to you as a change agent,
and this could be a great opportunity for your career as well.
You will have a greater chance of successfully
implementing Kanban with management's approval since
you'll want their skin in the game as well.
Now let's see just how you might get the approvals you need.
Now let's see how you would convince your management by
appealing to the business benefits of using Kanban.
Plan your presentation to influence management.
Management loves to see process improvements,
better quality delivered, and more throughput.
Focus your approach and presentation on adding value to the business.
Understand their hot buttons. What are they? Figure them out before
you present. Are new requirements just taking too long to implement?
Can priority changes be handled better?
Can we respond more quickly to new or dynamically changing priorities?
Do we have too much rework?
That's just wasting time and resources. What takes so long to
get our features implemented? These are questions and
challenges facing management today,
so you need to clearly lay out how Kanban will
support and mitigate their concerns.
Now let's look at some ideas.
Here are some questions management may ask and what your
answers may be. How many meetings will you have?
Daily standups and only occasional meetings as needed. Also,
no special process meetings.
How long does it take to correct issues?
Well, visual workflow identifies issues,
and the team can more readily resolve it.
Is it possible to submit incomplete work?
Well, because of the 'done' rule, incomplete work cannot be submitted.
Is there a lot of rework?
There is a reduction of rework since there are clear quality‑assurance
steps throughout the workflow process. Could schedules slip? Well, by
minimizing work in progress, new priorities can be accommodated, and more deliveries can be on time.